<p align="justify">We all know that Gold Loans have had a tremendously positive impact on the growth of the financial environment in the country. It has been touted as one of the most essential components of the investment environment and has thus been a crucial factor determining the growth of the gold loan factoring market. But despite all such positive indications, there have been some negative connotations associated with the functioning of gold loans which has taken away some shine from the positive work that has been achieved in this field. <br><br>
At times the <b><a href="https://www.dialabank.com/gold-loan/gold-loan-calculator/">gold loan calculator</b></a> facilities have been used for the benefit of the banking institutions instead of looking at the benefits obtained by the borrowers. This change in narrative has at times negatively impacted the gold loan market and has led to the rise of negativity in the investment environment. <br><br>
<b>Following are some of the negative impacts that the functioning of gold loan facilities have had on the financial environment</b><br><br>
<b>Creation of Excessive Lending Propensity and Tendency-</b> One of the biggest negative impacts that the functioning of the gold loan process is the creation of a tendency to lend excessively from the banking institutions. This operates in the following manner. When the gold loan facilities are easily available in the market, there is a tendency to shift towards a tendency to borrow more money from the banking institutions providing the loans. The person who has a large pool of assets will utilize the facility and loan a significant amount of money from the <b><a href="https://www.dialabank.com/gold-loan/bajaj-finance-gold-loan/">Bajaj Finance gold loan per gram</b></a> and would be undertaking the system of part payment or monthly payment through the system of installment and subsequent interest facility. <br><br>
However, easy lending facilities are disadvantageous as well since there is the development of a tendency to borrow excessive money from the banks. Since it will become a habit, the borrowers may not be judicious about their lending decisions and they would continuously keep on taking loans from the banking institutions. They would not even realize that within some time there will be an excessive loan burden on them which they would find very difficult to clear off. Under the burden of the existing loan infrastructure in their professional life, they will find it difficult to finance their resources which would lead to a financial meltdown of resources leading to a negative growth environment in the country. <br><br>
<b>Loss of Gold on Failure in Repayment leading to withdrawal tendency-</b> Another negative impact that proves detrimental for the growth of the loan market in the economy is the default in payment of gold loans which may lead to a loss in the amount of gold deposited by the borrower to the banking institution. When the borrowers find that they are unable to pay off the required installment amount monthly the banks would take away the gold deposited by them and would not return them. This would lead to a permanent asset loss for the borrower which they would not be able to recover properly. <br><br>
Default in Payment of interest amount would thus not be beneficial for the growth of the loan facility as the borrowers would not be inclined to invest their gold in the loan process of the banking institution. This withdrawal tendency would stop the flow of investment in the economy and thereby gold loans would not be as beneficial as expected.<br>
  <b><h3>Conclusion</h3></b>
<p align="justify">Thus overcoming these negative impacts and effects through adequate measures is instrumental behind the growth of the economic environment. If you have any queries regarding gold loans and need to know the bright side of it, drop your queries in the comment section and our executives will get back to you within the minimum time period.
